docs(www): Add "Sourcing from Prismic" (#8956)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/sourcing-from-prismic.md

---
title: Sourcing from Prismic
---

In this guide, we'll walk through setting up a site with content management using [Prismic](https://prismic.io/).

> Prismic is a hosted, proprietary Headless CMS (SaaS) with a web app for creating and publishing content. It's suitable for marketers, editors and developers as it has both a "Writing Room" and a fully-fledged API & Content backend. Besides the usual advantages of a SaaS CMS (hosting, security, updates) Prismic offers features like: Custom type builder, scheduling and content versioning and multi-language support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prismic is a hosted, proprietary Headless CMS (SaaS) with a web app for creating and publishing content. It's suitable for marketers, editors and developers as it has both a "Writing Room" and a fully-fledged API & content backend. Besides the usual advantages of a SaaS CMS (hosting, security, updates) Prismic offers features like: custom type builder, scheduling and content versioning and multi-language support.
```

nit: but watch the capitalization here!

> Moreover their _Content Slices_ feature enables you to build dynamic layouts by defining reusable custom components and placing them on your landing page, case studies or in your blogposts. Fortunately you can use those in Gatsby to realize features like PrismJS highlighting or using `gatsby-image`. The linked [starter](https://github.com/LekoArts/gatsby-starter-prismic) shows you how to implement that.

Reviewer: Maybe link to some Content Slices documentation (presuming it exists?)

> Moreover their _Content Slices_ feature enables you to build dynamic layouts by defining reusable custom components and placing them on your landing page, case studies or in your blogposts. Fortunately you can use those in Gatsby to realize features like PrismJS highlighting or using `gatsby-image`. The linked [starter](https://github.com/LekoArts/gatsby-starter-prismic) shows you how to implement that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover their _Content Slices_ feature enables you to build dynamic layouts by defining reusable custom components and placing them on your landing page, case studies or in your blog posts. Fortunately you can use those in Gatsby to realize features like PrismJS highlighting or using `gatsby-image`. The linked [starter](https://github.com/LekoArts/gatsby-starter-prismic) shows you how to do just that!
```

> The written instructions get accompanied by uncommented YouTube videos which will show the described steps in action. You can also watch the full [video playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLB-cmN3u7PHJCG-phPyiydhHfiosyd0VC).

Reviewer: Could we tweak this? It reads a teensy bit awkwardly!

Author: Which paragraph? The one about slices or videos?

Reviewer: This one!

> The written instructions get accompanied by uncommented YouTube videos which will show the described steps in action

_Note: This guide uses the Gatsby Hello World starter to provide a very basic understanding of how Prismic can work with your Gatsby site. If you'd like to start with a full blown template, check out [gatsby-starter-prismic](https://github.com/LekoArts/gatsby-starter-prismic). If you're not familiar with Prismic and its functionalities yet, we highly recommend to check out [Prismic's official documentation](https://prismic.io/docs) which also includes user guides and tutorials. This guide assumes that you have basic knowledge of Prismic & Gatsby (See [Gatsby's official tutorial](/tutorial))._

## Setup

### Prismic

> Before initializing the Gatsby project you should sign up for an account on [Prismic.io](https://prismic.io/). The free plan is a perfect fit for personal or smaller projects. Create a new blank repository to get to the content overview of your repository.

Reviewer: Perhaps screenshots are helpful here?

Author: The video directly after that paragraph shows that 👍

Reviewer: > Videos help this process a lot, so nice work! I think images are maybe a little easier for some people, but I think video is fine too.

Yeah, I'm fine with either here :)

Create your first custom type (Repeatable Type) with the name `Post` and add some fields to it. Choose rational names for the `API ID` input while configuring a field because these names will appear in your queries. You should always add the `uid` field in order to have a unique identifier (e.g. for filtering). Then switch to the content overview and create a new document with your `Post` type. Fill out the fields and publish the item.

> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/yrOYLNiYtBQ?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer: Videos help this process a lot, so nice work! I think images are maybe a little easier for some people, but I think video is fine too.

> So that Gatsby can grab all information from Prismic you'll need to generate an Access Token. Head over to `Settings → API & Security`, fill out the `Application name` field (the Callback URL can be left empty), and press `Add this application`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for Gatsby to grab all information from Prismic you'll need to generate an access token. Head over to `Settings → API & Security`, fill out the `Application name` field (the Callback URL can be left empty), and press `Add this application`.
```

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/iH0P4KcOeVc?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Gatsby

> First, open a new terminal window and run the following to create a new site. This will create a new directory called `prismic-tutorial` that contains the starters site, but you can change "prismic-tutorial" in the command below to be whatever you like.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
First, open a new terminal window and run the following command to create a new site:

```shell
gatsby new prismic-tutorial https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-hello-world
```

This will create a new directory called `prismic-tutorial` that contains the starters site, but you can change `prismic-tutorial` in the command above to whatever name you prefer!
````

> ```shell

Reviewer: Remove this per comment above probably!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/bvDAUEaJXrM?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Single pages (like your homepage, privacy policy page etc.) don't need [GraphQL connections](https://blog.apollographql.com/explaining-graphql-connections-c48b7c3d6976) (e.g. `allPrismicHomepage`) due to the fact that only one document for that type exists in Prismic anyway. Therefore you need to use `prismicHomepage` for your query. This also has the benefit that you don't have to map over an array. Your page could look something like this:

```jsx:title=src/pages/index.js
import React from "react"
import { graphql, Link } from "gatsby"

const Index = ({ data: { prismicHomepage } }) => (
  <React.Fragment>
    <h1>{prismicHomepage.data.title.text}</h1>
    <div dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{ __html: prismicHomepage.data.content.html }} />
  </React.Fragment>
)

export default Index

export const pageQuery = graphql`
  query IndexQuery {
    prismicHomepage {
      data {
        title {
          text
        }
        content {
          html
        }
      }
    }
  }
`
```

## Wrapping Up

> This was a very basic example meant to help you understand how Prismic works with Gatsby. As mentioned in the beginning of this guide, if you got stuck, you can compare your code to the [gatsby-starter-prismic](https://github.com/LeKoArts/gatsby-starter-prismic) which is the project set up in the videos. A working example created by following this guide is available in the [commit history](https://github.com/LeKoArts/gatsby-starter-prismic/tree/4aa5d52e79a0b4d90f0a671c24eb8289eb15a42b) of the aforementioned starter. More advanced usages of Prismic in Gatsby would, e.g. be [Slices](https://intercom.help/prismicio/content-modeling-and-custom-types/field-reference/slices) and [Labels](https://intercom.help/prismicio/content-modeling-and-custom-types/structure-your-content/add-custom-styles-to-rich-text).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This was a very basic example meant to help you understand how Prismic works with Gatsby. As mentioned in the beginning of this guide, if you get stuck, you can compare your code to the [gatsby-starter-prismic](https://github.com/LeKoArts/gatsby-starter-prismic) which is the project set up in the videos. A working example created by following this guide is available in the [commit history](https://github.com/LeKoArts/gatsby-starter-prismic/tree/4aa5d52e79a0b4d90f0a671c24eb8289eb15a42b) of the aforementioned starter. More advanced usages of Prismic in Gatsby would, e.g. be [Slices](https://intercom.help/prismicio/content-modeling-and-custom-types/field-reference/slices) and [Labels](https://intercom.help/prismicio/content-modeling-and-custom-types/structure-your-content/add-custom-styles-to-rich-text).
```

Also maybe close this out with a conclusion? A helpful one is something like:

> With your new found knowledge of Prismic (and perhaps even Gatsby!), we've been able to:
> 
> - do this thing
> - this other thing
